= KT-LCD3: information and configuration =
<br>


'''The following only applies to firmware version 0.19.X!'''

<br>
''' CAUTION: '''
<br>
* Always use the same firmware version for both the motor controller and LCD unless otherwise specified!
* Before using the mid drive with new firmware, you must correctly configure the options on the display. For instance, you should configure your battery low voltage cut off so as not to over discharge the battery. Do set all other parameters also.
* When installing new firmware, always check that no unwanted functions have become enabled or disabled during the install process.
<br>


== 1. Main Screen ==
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Assist Level Field ===
The assist level field displays the active assist level. This sets the motor power as a factor of the power that rider is generating on the pedals. For instance, if current assist level is 3 and if this level is configured as a factor of 2.0, when rider is doing on the pedals a power of 100 watts, the motor power supplied will be 200 watts. The assist level is changed by pressing either UP or DOWN button.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* It is possible to configure the number of assist levels (1 to 9) in the configuration menu. 
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Wheel Speed Field === 
This sub field displays information about speed. The values are displayed in either metric or imperial units and the user can switch between a couple of different speed measurements. The default one is current wheel speed. Other ones are average speed since power on and peak speed since power on.
<br><br>

- <b> Wheel speed: </b> Displays current wheel speed.
<br><br>
- <b> Average wheel speed: </b> Displays average wheel speed since power on.
<br><br>
- <b> Peak wheel speed: </b> Displays peak wheel speed since power on.
<br><br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Motor Power Field === 
The motor power field displays instantaneous motor power in watts. 

If enabled, it is possible to access a quick-set sub menu by long pressing ON/OFF and UP buttons. Press or hold UP and DOWN buttons to increase or decrease the power limit. This can be useful for various reasons, for instance controlling the battery range on long trips. Exit the sub menu by holding the ON/OFF button. The quick-set sub menu cannot be accessed when offroad mode is enabled. Disable offroad mode first or change the motor power limit in the configuration menu.

How it works: the motor controller will automatically limit current and therefore limit maximum motor power. As the battery discharges and the voltage decreases the motor controller will adjust the current to maintain the set power limit.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* If enabled, it is possible to access a quick set sub menu by long pressing ON/OFF and UP buttons. Press or hold UP and DOWN buttons to increase or decrease the power limit. Exit sub menu by holding the ON/OFF button. 
* The quick set sub menu cannot be accessed when offroad mode is enabled. Disable offroad mode first or set the motor power limit in the configuration menu.
* The motor power will not exceed the maximum battery current set by user.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Odometer Field === 
The odometer field located at the bottom of the display can show a few variables that are logically grouped in sub fields. You can change between fields by pressing the ON/OFF button. To change between different data in a sub field quickly press UP button followed by a long hold on UP button. The current field and sub field number will temporarily blink in the wheel speed field.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* Sub fields are only displayed if the function in question is enabled and not set to hidden in the Configuration Menu, Main Screen Setup.
<br><br>

<b> - 1. Distance </b> 
* <u> 1.0 Trip distance: </u> You can manually reset the trip distance by pressing DOWN button quickly followed by a long press on the DOWN button until value resets. It will start to blink when it is about to reset.
* <u> 1.1 Distance since power on: </u> this value will automatically reset during power on/off.
* <u> 1.2 Odometer: </u> can be set to a specific value in the configurations menu or reset as described above.
<br>
<b> - 2. Battery State of Charge </b>
* <u> 2.0 State of charge in percentage </u>
* <u> 2.1 Consumed watt-hours </u>
<br>
<b> - 3. Battery State </b>
* <u> 3.0 Voltage: </u> voltage of battery.
* <u> 3.1 Current: </u> instantaneous current drawn from battery.
<br>
<b> - 4. Pedal data </b>
* <u> 4.0 Rider pedal power </u>: in watts.
* <u> 4.1 Pedal cadence </u>: in revolutions per minute.
* <u> 4.2 Pedal torque </u>: in newton meter.
<br>
<b> - 5. Energy data </b>
* <u> 5.0 Average consumed power since power on </u>: displayed in watt-hours per kilometer or watt-hours per mile.
* <u> 5.1 Estimated range since power on </u>: displayed in kilometers or miles and is based on the watt-hour consumption since power on and remaining watt-hours in the battery. This sub field will not be displayed if the Battery State of Charge function has not been enabled.
<br>
<b> - 6. Time Measurement </b>
* <u> 6.0 Time Measurement: </u> time measured since display is powered on. You can reset by pressing DOWN button quickly followed by a long press on the DOWN button until value resets. It will start to blink when it is about to reset.
* <u> 6.1 Total Time Measurement: </u> total time measured since last reset. Can be reset as described above.
<br>
<b> - 7. Wheel Speed </b>
* <u> 7.0 Current wheel speed: </u> Current wheel speed.
* <u> 7.1 Average wheel speed: </u> The average speed since power on.
* <u> 7.2 Peak wheel speed: </u> The measured peak value of wheel speed since power on.
<br>
<b> - 8. Motor Temperature </b>
* <u> 8.0 Motor temperature: </u> temperature of motor.
<br>
<b> - 9. Cruise Function </b>
* <u> 9.0 See target speed for Cruise: </u>
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Motor Temperature Field === 
This field can either show the motor temperature, when the function is enabled and the temperature sensor is installed, or some other data depending on user preference. It is also possible to set so that the field displays nothing.

'''How the motor temperature function works:'''

This motor temperature protection eliminates overheating. Without this function the motor might overheat during heavy loads, resulting in permanent damage/loss of torque. See: '''[[TSDZ2 motor demagnetized due to overheating]]'''. You can only use and enable this feature if you have installed the [[How to install motor temperature sensor| motor temperature sensor]].

If you have installed the [[How to install motor temperature sensor| motor temperature sensor]] and you enable the function, you will be able to see the motor temperature in the temperature field of the display. When the set minimum motor temperature threshold is reached, the motor current will start to be limited. If the temperature keeps rising this will result in even more current, and therefore overall power, limitations. If the maximum motor temperature is reached the current will be completely limited.

The temperature value on the display will blink if the motor current is being limited. As the function limits the current more it will blink faster corresponding to higher limitations on current. Finally, if the current is completely limited, the blink rate will be very fast.

'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* Set your desired configuration under the Main Screen Setup in the Configuration Menu.
* The chosen field to be displayed will be temporarily hidden and the motor temperature will be displayed if it is at temperature limits.
<br><br>

- <b> Motor temperature: </b> Motor temperature in degrees Celsius. When the power power is being limited due to over temperature, this field will blink. It is possible to configure the temperature limits in the Configurations Menu.
<br><br>
- <b> Battery state of charge in percent: </b> This percentage value is based on measured watt hours consumed from the battery. Set different modes and read more about this function in the configurations menu.
<br><br>
- <b> Battery voltage: </b> When you prefer to always have the battery voltage displayed it is possible to set this in the motor temperature field.
<br><br>
- <b> Battery current: </b> Monitor the instantaneous current drawn from the battery.
<br><br>
- <b> Pedal cadence: </b> Set to pedal cadence if you wish to see the instantaneous cadence of pedal rotation.
<br><br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Time Measurement Field === 
The time measurement field displays elapsed time since power on or since last reset. It displays either the TM symbol, stands for Time Measurement, or TTM symbol, stands for Total Time Measurement. This corresponds to the mentioned "time since power on" and "time since last reset".
<br><br>

- <b> TM: </b> Elapsed time since power on.
<br><br>
- <b> TTM: </b> Elapsed time since last reset.
<br><br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Battery State of Charge Bar === 
The battery state of charge bar in the top left corner of the display is based on battery voltage. There are 6 different levels. When battery is near empty the bar will start blinking and the motor power will be reduced accordingly.
<br>
The system considers the internal resistance of the battery pack to display appropriate battery state of charge. This filters out voltage drops when drawing higher amounts of current from the battery. Set the internal resistance of your particular battery in the configurations menu.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Lights === 
Enabled or disable LCD backlight, headlights and lights symbol with a long press of UP button. The LCD backlight will change as configured by user.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Brakes === 
The brake symbol lights up when user engages the E-Bike brakes, if installed. This is also useful for checking that the E-Brakes are working properly and thus turn of the motor assistance when applied.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Walk Assist === 
Enable or disable walk assist with a long hold of DOWN button at speeds below 8 km/h (approximately 5 mph). The motor will start to give assistance configured by user and maintain that as long as the DOWN button is being pressed. At the same time the walk assist symbol will light up. To set different power levels simply select appropriate assist level. The power levels can be configured in the configuration menu.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* This function can be disabled in the configuration menu.
* Number of walk assist levels correspond to number of configured assist levels.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Cruise === 
Enable or disable the cruise function with a long hold of DOWN button at speeds above 8 km/h (approximately 5 mph). If the function is enabled it will by default save the current wheel speed and maintain it for as long as the DOWN button is pressed. The cruise symbol will light up to let the user know that the function is active. 

It is also possible to enable a feature where you enter the desired wheel speed and the cruise function will automatically go to and maintain that speed. More information on how to enable and use the different functions can be found under the configuration menu.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* This function can be disabled in the configuration menu.
* Use with safety in mind.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
=== Offroad Mode === 
If offroad mode is enabled it can be activated with the ON/OFF and UP button combination and deactivated with the ON/OFF and DOWN button combination. When active, the assist symbol above the assist level will start blinking. Offroad mode is disabled and inactive by default.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* It is not recommended to activate offroad mode on public roads. 
* In many countries offroad mode may only be used on private property.
<br>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

== 2. Configuration Menu ==
<br>

=== How to enter the Configuration Menu ===

* To enter the configuration menu: long press UP and DOWN buttons
* To enter sub menus: press ON/OFF button
* To move to next sub menu: press either UP or DOWN button
* To exit sub menu or configuration menu: long press the ON/OFF button
<br>


=== 0: General Setup ===
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 ||Unit|| Metric || Set (0) for metric units (km/h and kilometers) or (1) for imperial units (mph and miles).
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Maximum wheel speed || 50 ||  Enter your speed limit (by law) to run legal on public roads. The motor will fade out from -0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h. Tip: Europe has generally a speed limit of 25 km/h for E-Bikes.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Wheel circumference || 2050 || Enter your wheel circumference so that speed and distance are correctly calculated.
<br><br>
Tip: Search on Google how to measure the wheel circumference. Below are approximate values for a quick setup. Remember to calibrate with GPS for finer adjustments.
<br><br>
26 inch wheel = 2050 mm
<br>
27 inch wheel = 2150 mm
<br>
27.5 inch wheel = 2215 mm
<br>
28 inch wheel = 2250 mm
<br>
29 inch wheel = 2300 mm
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Set odometer || 0 || Set the odometer to preferred value. Increase the value by pressing UP button or press and hold to have the value increment automatically. Decrease the value by pressing the DOWN button or press and hold to have the value decrement automatically.
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Screen brightness when backlight is off || 5 || Percentage of brightness when back light is turned off. The default value is five (5) percent.
<br><br>
|-
| 5 || Screen brightness when backlight is on || 80 || Percentage of brightness when back light is turned on. The default value is eighty (80) percent.
<br><br>
|-
| 6 || Screen auto power off || 15 || Automatic power off after set amount of minutes.
<br><br>
|-
| 7 || Reset to factory defaults || 0 ||
#Increase the value to 10 
#The display will turn off 
#Turn it on again 
#Factory default settings will be restored
<br>
|}
<br>


=== 1: Battery Setup ===

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Maximum current from battery || 16 ampere || Set maximum allowable current to be pulled from the battery. This value is limited internally by the firmware to the safe value of 18 ampere.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Battery low-cut-off voltage || 39 volt || The controller will reduce power to stay over this limit! Calculate the limit by multiplying amount of cells in series with the safe cut-off-voltage per cell, which is usually between 2.8 - 3.0 volts. Example: 39.0 volts for: 13 cells in series * 3.0 volts = 39.0 volts.
<br><br>
Tip: The standard Samsung cells allow down to 2.75 V but you need some safety margin because not all cells have exactly the same capacity. But setting a too large value you loose range and power. I like to use the value of 29 V for a 36 V battery pack (= 10 cells in series).
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Number of cells in series || 13 || Set this value so the battery state indicator works properly. This value can be any integer from 7 to 14
<br><br>
Example values: 7 for 24 V battery; 10 for 36 V battery; 13 for 48 V battery; 14 for 52 V battery.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Battery internal resistance || 130 milliohms || Set this value so the battery state indicator does not display a lower state of charge when pulling a lot of power from battery and the voltage sags.
<br><br>
Explanation: If you set the value to 0, you will see the battery state indicator fluctuating whenever the motor draws current from the battery. This is due to the internal resistance in the battery. The fluctuation will disappear and be filtered out with a correct value.
<br><br>
How to calculate the battery pack resistance:<br>
1. Limit the battery current to a known value, e.g. 10 amps<br>
2. Read the voltage drop when motor is pulling the 10 amps<br>
3. Calculate the resistance value
<br><br>
Example for 10 amps current, R = U / I, R = 1.2 volts drop / 10 amps, R = 0.120 = 120 milliohms.
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Battery voltage (SOC) || - || Measured and continuously updated battery voltage State Of Charge (SOC). This value is filtered using the battery pack resistance. 
<br><br>
Tip: Here you can evaluate and test how the set internal resistance of the battery affects the voltage reading.
<br><br>
|}    
<br>


=== 2: Battery Capacity Setup ===

Under this configuration menu you can set parameters to display the state of charge of your E-Bike battery. If this function is enabled it will display how many watt-hours have been consumed since last charge and what percentage remains of the battery. Depending on preferences it is possible to set so that percentage of consumed charge is displayed instead of percentage of remaining charge.

Tip: If this function is enabled you will be able to see percentage of charge in the temperature field on your display. To enable or disable just click the ON/OFF-button together with the DOWN-button at the same time. Do not forget to enable and set up the function below. 

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Enable and set State of Charge function || 0 || Set (1) to enable function. It will display watt-hours consumed and percentage of charge remaining, i.e., display percentage value from 100 % to 0 %.
<br><br>
Set (2) to enable function. It will display watt-hours consumed and percentage of charge consumed, i.e., display percentage value from 0 % to 100 %.
<br><br>
Set (0) to disable the function.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Threshold voltage to reset watt-hour meter || 54.2 volt || When powering on the display this value is compared to the battery voltage. If it is lower, the battery is expected to be fully charged and the watt-hour meter is reset.
<br><br>
Tip: To find a suitable value, fully charge the battery and measure the voltage on the KT-LCD3, use a slightly lower value for the threshold voltage. 
<br><br>
Example: my 48 V battery charges up to 54.6 volts, so I set the threshold to 54.2 volts.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Total watt-hours of battery || 0 || Set the total capacity in watt-hours your battery has. 
<br><br>
Tip: fully charge the battery and then discharge it completely and use the measured value to input here. 
<br><br>
Tip: the capacities stated from suppliers are often too high, expect a value of around 80 % - 90 % of stated value. I use 350 Wh for my 386 Wh battery.
<br><br>
Tip: roughly calculate the capacity by multiplying the nominal voltage with the nominal ampere hours. Example: a 48 volt, 14.5 Ah battery has a nominal watt-hour capacity of 696 Wh.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Consumed watt-hours || - || This value represents consumed watt-hours since last reset. It is reset automatically when you power on the LCD and the battery is fully charged, i.e. above the set threshold voltage.
<br><br>
|}
<br>


=== 3: Assist Levels ===

Here you can configure how many assist levels you wish to be able to select and also their respective multipliers. The defaults should already work for most situations.

The assist level sets the motor power as a factor of the power the rider is generating on the crankshaft. For instance, if assist level 3 is chosen and configured with a multiplier of 2.0, when the rider is generating a power of 100 watts, the motor power will assist another 200 watts.

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Number of assist levels || 5 ||  Select the desired number of assist levels from a minimum of 1 to a maximum of 9.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Assist level 1 multiplier || 0.5 || The value with which the human pedaling power is multiplied with.
<br><br>
Example: 0.5 * 200 W (human power) = 100 W assist power. This results in 300 W total power.
<br><br>
|-
| X || Assist level X multiplier || .... || The desired multiplier for assist level X.
<br><br>
|}
<br>


=== 4: Walk Assist ===

Here you can enable or disable the walk assist function. And also configure the motor duty cycle in each and every enabled assist level. The defaults should work for most situations.

The walk assist PWM value sets the motor duty cycle. It is an open loop controller. A PWM value of 30 will set the target duty cycle to 30. Maximum settable PWM in the walk assist function is limited to a value of 100.

'''NOTES:'''
* There are only as many walk assist levels as there are assist levels. This is configured under 3: Assist Levels.
* Carefully test and set appropriate values.
* The function is only active in speeds below 8 km/h or around 5 mph.
<br>
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Enable/disable walk assist function || 0 ||  Set (1) to enable or set (0) to disable the walk assist function.
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 0 || 0 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 1 || 25 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 2 || 30 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 3 || 35 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 4 || 40 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 5 || 45 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 6 || 50 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 7 || 55 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 8 || 60 || -
<br><br>
|-
| - || Walk assist level 9 || 65 || -
<br><br>
|}
<br>


=== 5: Cruise Function ===

Here you can enable or disable the cruise function. The function can be activated when the bike is traveling at speeds above 8 km/h or around 5 mph and the user presses and holds the DOWN button. 

The cruise function has two modes of operation depending on user preference. It can, when activated, save the current speed and maintain it. Or the user can set a desired target speed and the cruise function will accelerate/decelerate to the set speed and then maintain it instead. Both modes of operation are activated the same way as described above.

If it is preferred to set a target speed and let the cruise function maintain that speed there are two ways in which the user can set the speed. The first way is through the configuration menu. The second way is by enabling the cruise display in the odometer field in the Main Screen Setup. This will display an extra sub field where the target speed is displayed in the odometer field. Pressing the UP or DOWN buttons will not change the assist level in this sub field, instead, it will change the target speed.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
* It is recommended to install and use the E-brakes when using Cruise.
* The cruise function only works at speeds above 8 km/h or around 5 mph.
* The motor power will not exceed set power limits.
<br>
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Enable/disable cruise function || 0 ||  Set (1) to enable or set (0) to disable the cruise function.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Set speed to maintain || 0 || Set (1) to enable or set (0) to disable the set speed to maintain feature. This will enable the user to set desired speed and the cruise function will maintain that speed.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Set target speed || 25 kph or 15 mph || Here it is possible to set the target speed for the cruise function to maintain. This is when the "set speed to maintain" feature is enabled.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Display set target speed for cruise || 0 || Display of user set target speed in which the cruise function will try to maintain. In this menu the UP and DOWN buttons will increment or decrement target speed. The target speed is displayed in the odometer field and is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
<br>


=== 6: Main Screen Setup ===

In the Main Screen Setup it is possible to configure and customize the main screen.
<br><br>
'''NOTES:'''
<br>
* Some variables can only be reset in the odometer field so it is required to enable those variables to be able to reset.
<br>
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Distance data || 1 ||  Display of distance data, i.e. trip distance, distance since power on and odometer, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Battery SOC|| 1 ||  Display of battery state of charge, i.e. watt-hours consumed or percentage of state of charge, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Battery state || 1 ||  Display of battery state, i.e. voltage and current, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Pedal data || 1|| Display of pedal data, i.e. rider pedal power, pedal cadence or pedal torque, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable. 
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Energy data || 1|| Display of energy data, i.e. average consumed power since power on, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 5 || Time measurement || 1 || Display of time measurement, i.e. TM or TTM, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 6 || Wheel speed || 1 || Display of wheel speed, i.e. current wheel speed, average wheel speed or peak wheel speed, in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 7 || Motor temperature || 1 || Display of motor temperature in the odometer field is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable. This will only be shown if the motor temperature sensor is installed and the function is enabled. Read more about this mod here. LINKLINKLINK
<br><br>
|-
| 8 || Display target speed for cruise || 0 || Display of user set target speed in which the cruise function will try to maintain. This menu will only be shown if the function is enabled. Press UP or DOWN buttons to increment or decrement target speed. The target speed is displayed in the odometer field and is enabled (1) by default. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 9 || Enable main screen power menu || 1 || When this feature is enabled (1) a power menu can be displayed from the main screen so the user can quickly set the motor power limit. This menu can be accessed from the main screen by long pressing the ON/OFF and UP buttons. Press or hold the UP or DOWN button to increase or decrease the power limit. Exit the menu by holding the ON/OFF button. The main screen power menu can not be accessed when offroad mode is enabled. Disable offroad mode first or set the motor power limit in the configuration menu. Set (0) to disable this menu altogether.
<br><br>
|-
| 10 || Temperature field setup || 0 ||  In this sub menu it is possible to set the temperature field to display different data depending on user preference. Such as:
<br>
<br> (0) = Display nothing
<br> (1) = Motor temperature
<br> (2) = Battery state of charge in percent
<br> (3) = Instantaneous voltage on battery
<br> (4) = Instantaneous current drawn from battery
<br> (5) = Pedal cadence
<br><br>
NOTE: If the motor temperature is hitting the temperature limits the field will temporarily flash the motor temperature and override any other data.
<br><br>
|}
<br>


=== 7: Startup BOOST function ===

Here you can enable, disable and configure the BOOST feature. This feature helps from standstills where you might need greater assistance. It gives more power during a set time and then fades the power back to normal assistance. To configure the function for you likening please set appropriate values.

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || BOOST feature || 0 ||  Set (1) to enable or (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || On startup only / every time || 1 ||  Set (1) to enable BOOST feature every time pedal cadence or torque sensor value are zero. Set (0) to enable BOOST feature only when startup and bicycle wheel speed is equal to zero.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Limit BOOST power to max battery power || 0 || Set (1) to enable BOOST power limit to the maximum battery power value. Set (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || BOOST time || 2.0 seconds || Set time limit of BOOST.
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Fade out BOOST || 3.5 seconds || Set time limit to transition of power from BOOST to regular power.
<br><br>
|-
| 5 || Assist level 1 BOOST multiplier|| 4 || Set the BOOST multipler corresponding to assist level 1.
<br><br>
Tip: See assist levels for more information about multipliers.
<br><br>
|-
| 6 || Assist level X BOOST multiplier || - || Set the BOOST multipler corresponding to assist level X.
<br><br>
Tip: See assist levels for more information about multipliers.
<br><br>
|}
<br>


=== 8: Motor Controller Setup ===

In this sub menu the motor controller can be setup to work as desired. It is also possible to enable or disable the throttle or the motor temperature protection function here and also various other settings.

'''NOTES:'''
* Do note that the throttle and the motor temperature protection can not be active simultaneously. This is because they use the same hardware ports to operate. 
* If the motor temperature sensor is installed it is not possible to use the throttle. Do NOT enable throttle if that is the case.
* Set the current ramp up to a lower value for a more smooth acceleration and lower strain on the drivetrain.
<br>

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Motor voltage type || 0 ||
Depending on type of motor, set appropriate value so that FOC calculations are correctly executed. The voltage of the battery does not matter, this value should always be set depending on type of motor.
<br><br>
* Set (0) for 48 V brushless motor (TSDZ2 52 V version has a 48 V brushless motor).
* Set (1) for 36 V brushless motor.
* Set (2) (EXPERIMENTAL) for the 48 V brushless motor, high cadence mode. Maybe not good for the motor, use at your own risk. Probably only suitable for the 36 V motor.
* Set (3) (EXPERIMENTAL) for the 36 V brushless motor, high cadence mode. Maybe not good for the motor, use at your own risk. Probably only suitable for the 36 V motor.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Motor power limit || 0 || Set value after user preference. A tip is to install the motor temperature sensor if a lot of power is frequently needed so as not to overheat the motor. Or set a lower motor power limit.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Current ramp up || 5 amps per second|| Set value after user preference. Higher value corresponds to faster acceleration but also greater forces on the mid drive. Be mindful not to select too fast acceleration.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Motor assistance startup without pedal rotation || 0 || Select (1) to enable or select (0) to disable. Recommended to keep disabled (0) if you do not have brake sensors installed.
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Temperature limit or throttle || 0 || This sub menu is by default set to (0). This means neither throttle nor motor temperature limit function is enabled. Set (1) to enable the motor temperature control or set (2) to enable the throttle.  
<br><br>
NOTE: Do NOT enable the throttle if you have installed the [[How to install motor temperature sensor|motor temperature sensor]]. If you have the sensor installed you need to either have the motor temperature limit function enabled or everything disabled, i.e. set to either (1) or (0).
<br><br>
|-
| 5 || Minimum temperature || 75 °C || Set the minimum motor temperature at which the motor current will start to be limited.
<br><br>
|-
| 6 || Maximum temperature || 85 °C || Set the maximum motor temperature at which the motor current will be completely blocked, i.e., motor shutoff.
<br><br>
|}
<br>


=== 9: Offroad Mode ===

This function enables user to limit speed and power when using bike on road. When using the bike off road where laws may be different it is possible to toggle Offroad mode and unlock a higher speed or power limit. Set parameters suitable for your specific laws and preferences.

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Feature toggle|| 0 || Set (1) to enable or (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Active on system startup || 0 || Determines whether offroad mode should be active on system startup. Select (1) to enable or select (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || Speed limit || 25 km/h || This speed limit is used when offroad mode is not active. Configure your speed which is legal for using on public roads. The motor will fade out power from -0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Limit power || 0 || Determines whether power should be limited when offroad mode is not active. Select (1) to enable or (0) to disable.
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Power limit || 250 W || The power limit in watts. For most countries in Europe the legal power limit is 250 W.
<br><br>
|}
<br>

=== 10: Advanced Technical Data ===
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || ADC throttle || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 1 || Throttle || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 2 || ADC pedal torque sensor || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 3 || Pedal torque sensor || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 4 || Pedal cadence || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 5 || Pedal human power || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 6 || PWM duty cycle || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 7 || Motor speed in ERPs || See the current value.
<br><br>
|-
| 8 || FOC angle || See the current value. This value must be multiplied by 1.4 to get angle value in degrees.
<br><br>
|}