__NOTOC__

= Why should you use the Flexible OpenSource firmware =

Here the feedback from [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMQGmuYA6Vg jbalat], a long time user of TSDZ2 that already did more than 5000kms on it:

''I think the new firmware has given the motor new life. (...) it feels much more responsive and actually gives you more power as you spin out instead of dropping off like the original firmware. That is what I wanted so it now feels more like the Bosch motor.''

''In fact the old firmware would feel like you are hitting a brick wall the faster you peddle but with this firmware it feels like a breath of fresh air. The faster you want to go the more it helps you.''
''When I got right near the end and still had some battery left I pumped the power up to 550W and was able to ride comfortably at 38km/hr with little effort. I would not have been able to do this with the old firmware with a battery that was so low.''

And the feedback from EndlessCadence user:

''(the Flexible OpenSource firmware) This is GOLD. The power, the smoothness... It's amazing! I still have a smile on my face. The bike feels very responsive and is very fast and agile whenever you need it to. It was also very smooth and powerful on a small hill.''

And the feedback from bart1006 user: 

''I just had my first test ride with the opensource firmware. Jiiihhaaa!!  :D  :D  :D''
''Way and way better than I expected. How it picks up the power support is really super. I also have a bosch motor and this comes pretty close. The info which the firmware is showing on lcd makes the total package way better for me.''

Also, for casainho (the developer that started this project), it is strategic to use and help develop OpenSource knowledge and technology for EBike motor controllers, because it is really important to create better alternatives to fight against the Climate Change -- here [http://www.solarflairlighting.com/pope-francis-letter-on-care-for-our-common-home|some words of Pope Francis]:

''There is an urgent need to develop policies so that, in the next few years, the emission of carbon dioxide and other highly polluting gases can be drastically reduced, for example, substituting for fossil fuels and developing sources of renewable energy.''

= Features and configurations =

Curious about the '''[[TSDZ2 and KT LCD3 advanced features with Flexible OpenSource firmwares|features and configurations]]'''? [[TSDZ2 and KT LCD3 advanced features with Flexible OpenSource firmwares|see here]].

= How to install the firmware =

Ready to '''[[How to install the Flexible OpenSource firmware|install the firmware]]'''? [[How to install the Flexible OpenSource firmware|see here]].

= See also =

Please read the '''TSDZ2 [[FAQ]]'''

Join us on [https://endless-sphere.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=28&t=79788 Endless-sphere forum]