These notes will help you to install the Flexible Open Source firmware on the TSDZ2 motor controller and on the following displays:
* Bafang 850C (320*480, 3.5 inches color LCD)
* KT-LCD3 (black and white segment display)

'''IMPORTANT NOTES:'''
* Installing this firmware will void your warranty of TSDZ2 motor and display
* There is no guarantee using this firmware, please use at your own risk

__TOC__

= Introduction =

To use this firmware, other than owning a TSDZ2 motor, you need will need to buy the Bafang 850C or KT-LCD3 display.

Although this displays signals are compatible with TSDZ2 motor controller, they have different connectors so you will have to connect this display cable wires to the original TSDZ2 display cable by yourself, but this is a simple soldering task.

'''[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nj8GxKHut3o Jbalat did a series of videos explaining how to install the firmware]''' (please take note that some links on the video may be out of date).

If you are afraid to do the installation, you can ask at a local ebike shop as they should easily be able to do it as the technical difficulty is small.

'''NOTE:''' For the TSDZ2 motor configurations found on online shops (36V, 48V, 52V, whichever power in watts, with throttle or without) the motor controller is just the same. The only relevant difference is brushless motor inside, that there are only 2 different: 36V and 48V motor (52V systems use the 48V motor).

= Steps for the installation =
Note: before start, please first read all the steps to find the tools you will need to have.

# Buy the [[KT-LCD3]] or the [[Bafang 850C LCD|Bafang 850C]] LCD.
# [[How to flash the Flexible OpenSource firmware on KT LCD3|Flash the firmware on KT-LCD3]] or [[Flash the firmware on Bafang 850C LCD]]
# [[Wire-LCD-to-TSDZ2|Wire the display to TSDZ2]]
# [[Flash the firmware on TSDZ2]]
