
KT-LCD3 shows and/or configure the following from TSDZ2 motor:

* '''<u>Main screen</u>''': this is the default screen after turn on the LCD.
** <u>assist level</u>: 5 levels in total and user can define (on firmware configuration) a custom scale value for each level.
** <u>ebike wheel speed</u>: in kms or mph.
** <u>battery power</u>: in watts.
** <u>battery state of charge</u>: 6 different levels (state of charge is based on battery voltage and can be setup on on firmware configuration)
** <u>lights</u>: enabled with a button up long press. LCD backlight will be enabled when lights are enabled. (backlight intensity can be setup on on firmware configuration).
** <u>brake</u>: enabled when user press the ebike brakes
** <u>walk assist</u>: although it is implemented on LCD, it is not yet implemented on the motor controller. Enabled with a button down long press.
** <u>odometer field</u>: the following information will cycle with on/off button click
*** <u>battery voltage</u>: in volts.
*** <u>battery current</u>: in amps.
*** <u>battery power</u>: in watts/hour, the accumulated battery power used since last battery full charge. This value is automatically reset when LCD3 turns on and battery voltage equals to charged battery and this value can also be reset or set to a custom value on the configurations.
*** <u>pedal cadence</u>: in RPMs.
** <u>battery state of charge in percentage</u>: this value can be shown as an option, on the temperature field. The percentage is based on battery power in watts/hour, where user can defined on LCD configurations menu the battery pack total watts/hour.

* '''<u>Configurations screen</u>''': long click on up and down buttons to enter on this screen. On/off button click to enter on subscreens and on/off button click to cycle on subscreens
** <u>0: wheel speed</u>
*** <u>0: max ebike wheel speed</u>: in km/h (not yet implemented on the motor controller).
*** <u>1: ebike wheel perimeter</u>: in millimeters and this value is used, for instance, to calculate the ebike wheel speed.
*** <u>2: wheel speed units</u>: 0 for kmh and 1 for mph.
** <u>1: battery state of charge in watts/hour</u>
*** <u>0: enable/disable show of battery state of charge in percentage</u>
*** <u>1: battery state of charge increment or decrement</u>
*** <u>2: battery pack total power in watts/hour</u>: this value is used to calculate battery state of charge based on discharged watts/hour.
*** <u>3: set current watts/hour</u>
** <u>2: battery max current</u>
*** <u>0: battery max current</u>: in amps. Motor controller will use no more than this value. Motor controller firmware limits this value to a safe one, like 18 amps (but this can be configured on motor controller firmware, like for use 24 amps).
** <u>3: advanced technical data</u>
*** <u>0: adc throttle</u>
*** <u>1: throttle</u>
*** <u>2: adc pedal torque sensor</u>
*** <u>3: pedal torque sensor</u>
*** <u>4: pedal cadence</u>
*** <u>5: pedal human power</u>
*** <u>6: PWM duty_cycle</u>
*** <u>7: motor speed in ERPs</u>
*** <u>8: FOC angle</u>: the value must be multiplied by 1.4 to get and angle value in degrees.