NOTE: Before start using the firmware, you must configure correctly the options on LCD3. For instance, you should configure your battery low voltage cut off (battery voltage when it is discharged) and all the other parameters -- follow the next section.

KT-LCD3 shows and/or configure the following from TSDZ2 motor:

* '''<u>Main screen</u>''': this is the default screen after turn on the LCD.
** <u>assist level</u>: Assist level scales/amplify the torque sensor signal, if you want a higher assist level from the motor, choose the max assist level value. Assist level has 5 levels in total and user can define (on firmware configuration) a custom scale value for each level. Level 0 keep always the motor disabled.
** <u>ebike wheel speed</u>: the value can be shown in kms or mph.
** <u>battery power</u>: real time value in watts of the power being draw from the battery.
** <u>battery state of charge</u>: 6 different levels. When battery is empty, the empty symbol on LCD will also blink (state of charge is based on battery voltage and can be setup on the motor controller firmware configuration)
** <u>lights</u>: enabled with a button up long press, the motor controller will enable the ebike lights. LCD backlight will also be enabled. (backlight intensity can be setup on the motor controller firmware configuration).
** <u>brake</u>: LCD symbol is enabled when user press the ebike brakes, good to check that sensor brakes are working.
** <u>walk assist</u>: although it is implemented on LCD, it is not yet implemented on the motor controller. Enabled with a button down long press.
** <u>odometer field</u>: the following information will cycle with on/off button click
*** <u>battery voltage</u>: see your battery pack voltage.
*** <u>battery current</u>: see the current being draw from your battery pack.
*** <u>battery power</u>: see the accumulated battery power (in watts/hour) draw from your battery pack, since last battery full charge. This value is automatically reset when LCD turns on and battery voltage equals to charged battery voltage - this value can also be reset or set to a custom value on the configurations.
*** <u>pedal cadence</u>: see the pedals cadence in rotations per minute.
** <u>battery state of charge in percentage</u>: this value can be shown as an option on the temperature field. The percentage is based on the accumulated battery power draw from your battery pack and user can define on LCD configurations menu, the battery pack total watts/hour.

* '''<u>Max battery power screen</u>''': Motor controller will automatically choose a battery current in a way to limit the max battery power usage. The battery current value will never be higher than the max battery current setup on the configurations screen. Long click on on/off and up buttons to enter on this screen. Up and down buttons to increase/decrease the value. Long click of on/off button lo leave.

* '''<u>Configurations screen</u>''': long click on up and down buttons to enter on this screen. On/off button click to enter on subscreens and on/off button click to cycle on subscreens, long press  on/off to exit menue
 
THE FOLLOWING CONFIGURATION VALUES  ARE FOR VERSION 10!! YOU ALLWAYS NEED TO FLASH SAME VERSION ON BOTH, MOTOR AND LCD


== 0: General Basic setup==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Maximum wheel speed || 50 ||  Put in your speed limit (by law) to run legal on public roads , the motor will fade out from - 0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h in Europe often 25 km/h
|-
| 1 ||Wheel perimeter in mm  || 2050 || first estimate:  26''= 2050;  27''= 2150;  27.5''=2215;  28''= 2250;  29''=2300 
|-
| 2 || Speed Unit|| 0 km/h || 0 is km/h and  1 is miles per hour ( british miles of course)
|}



== 1: Battery voltage & current setup  ==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Number of cells || 13 ||  24V ->6/7?;  36v->10;   48V->13 based on the voltage of comon Samsung or Parasonic cells
|-
| 1 ||Maximum current of battery || 16?? ||This is the maximum current your batterie can supply, without damage, standard cells can suply 2C, means 2 times the capayity of cell without damage  with  1.7C you are quite save 
|-
| 2 || battery low cut-off voltage< || 39 ||  The controller will reduce power to stay over this limit! usualy 2.85-3.05 V per cell of (39.0 (3.0 * 13 = 39.0)).  The standard Samsung cells allow down to 2.75V but you need some savety margine because not all cells are discharging in the same way, but by setting too high you loose range  power on a discharged battery and capacity  I like 29V for 10 Cells  but 30V is saver 
|}    


== 2: Battery power setup ==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 ||Enable / disable percentage  of batterie charge  in temperature field   || 0 ?|| Switch for the gauge in the teperature field  0= off 1 = on, 
|-
| 1 ||Increment or decrement of charge  || 0 ?|| You can swich if the percentage should go form 0% -100% (0?) or from 100% to 0% (1) 
|-
| 2 ||Total watt hour  || 0 || Adjust the battery pack  power,  the ones suplier give you is often to a quite low  cut of voltage. by using maybe 85 % -90 % of this you are fine I use 350 for my 386 wh battery with cut of 2.9V.  
|-
|| 3 ||Used  power (wh)  of battery   || 0 || (as I understand it)  Here you put in  the start value what is already used from your Battery. for a charged one this is 0. This resets  when the LCD detects a full charged battery when switched on 
|}   


** <u>3: assist level</u>
*** <u>0: number of assist levels</u>: default value: 5. This is the number of available assist levels, max number is 9.
*** <u>1: assist level factor</u>: this is the factor (for assist level 1) that is multiplied to the calculated human power that the rider does on the bicycle pedals and will scale the final motor assist level.
*** <u>x: assist level factor</u>: factor for assist level x -- same as the previous and repeats for the next assist level.

** <u>4: startup power boost</u>: boost the initial motor startup, by increasing pedal torque sensitivity at startup
*** <u>0: config</u>: default value: 1. 0 to enable power boost only when startup and bicycle wheel = 0; 1 every time pedal cadence or torque sensor are zero.
*** <u>1: limit boost power to max battery power value</u>: default value: 0. 1 to enable power boost limit to the Max battery power value.
*** <u>2: boost time</u>: default value = 25 (2.5 seconds). 0 to disable startup power boost feature.
*** <u>3: boost fade out time</u>: default value = 25 (2.5 seconds). Fade out from boost power to regular power.
*** <u>4: assist level boost power</u>: this is the boost power (for assist level 1) in watts. Note that this value is not limited by the Max battery power screen value, it is although limited by the battery max current value.
*** <u>x: assist level boost power</u>: this is the boost power for assist level x -- same as the previous and repeats for the next assist level.

== 5: motor temperature protection ==

This feature is for protecting your motor from overheating and avoid permanent damage/loss of torque -- see here: '''[[TSDZ2 motor demagnetized due to overheating]]'''. You can only use and enable this feature [[How to install motor temperature sensor|if you installed the motor temperature sensor]].

=== How it works ===

On LCD3 temperature field you will be able to see the motor temperature value. Once the configured minimum motor temperature value is hit, the motor current will start to be reduced and as long as it increases, the more the 
current will be reduce. After hitting the configured maximum motor temperature value, the motor is shutoff.

The temperature value shown on LCD3 will blink when the motor current is being limited and will blink faster for higher rates of limited current. Finally, if the motor is shutoff, the blink rate will be very fast.


Possible configurations on LCD3:



{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || enable motor temperature sensor || 0 (disabled) || NOTE: if you don't have the [[How to install motor temperature sensor|motor temperature sensor installed]], you should disable this option and ignore the next configurations.
|-
| 1 || enable current limiting || 0 (disabled) || limit the motor current to avoid the motor get over the max temperature.
|-
| 2 || min temperature || 75 degrees Celsius || motor temperature value at which the motor current will start to be limited.
|-
| 3 || max temperature || 85 degrees Celsius || motor temperature max value at which the motor current will be zero / motor shutoff.
|}


** <u>6: various</u>
*** <u>0: motor voltage type</u>: default value: 0. 0 for 48V brushless motor (TSDZ2 52V version has a 48V brushless motor); 1 for 36V brushless motor. This configuration is needed for FOC calculations.
*** <u>1: motor assistance startup without pedal rotation</u>: default value: 0 (disabled). 1 to enable this feature. Recommended to keep at 0 value if you don't have brake sensors installed.
*** <u>2: PAS max cadence</u>: default value: 110. This value is used for calculation of human pedal power that will after be used for motor assist level.

** <u>7: advanced technical data</u> (the following values are read only, user can't change them)
*** <u>0: adc throttle</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>1: throttle</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>2: adc pedal torque sensor</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>3: pedal torque sensor</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>4: pedal cadence</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>5: pedal human power</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>6: PWM duty_cycle</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>7: motor speed in ERPs</u>: see the current value.
*** <u>8: FOC angle</u>: see the current value. This value must be multiplied by 1.4 to get and angle value in degrees.