The following applies to firmware version 0.17.x only!

CAUTION: always use the same firmware version for both the motor controller and LCD unless otherwise specified!

NOTE: Before using the mid drive with new firmware, you must configure the options on the display correctly. For instance, you should configure your battery low voltage cut off so as to not over discharge the battery. Do set all other parameters also.

= KT-LCD3 information and configurations =

== 1. Main screen ==
* '''<u>Main screen</u>'''
** <u>Assist level</u>: assist level sets the motor power as a factor of the power that rider is doing on the pedals. For instance, if current assist level is 3 and if this level is configured as a factor of 2.0, when rider is doing on the pedals a power of 100 watts, the motor power used will then be 200 watts.<br>The assist level is changed by pressing UP and DOWN buttons.
** <u>Ebike wheel speed</u>: the value of wheel speed in kms or mph.
** <u>Motor power</u>: power used by the motor (in watts) that is being draw from the battery.
** <u>Battery state of charge</u>: Battery state of charge based on battery voltage. There are 6 different levels. When battery is near empty, the battery symbol will be empty and blinking and the motor power will be reduced up to battery being totally empty.<br>The battery voltage used to calculate the state of charge has in consideration the battery pack resistance to avoid floating when power is being draw from the battery (the battery pack resistance value is set on configurations menu).
** <u>Lights</u>: enabled/disable with a long press of UP button (LCD back light will also be change, depending on the configurations) and the motor controller will enable/disable the ebike lights.
** <u>Brake</u>: Brake symbol is enabled when user press the ebike brakes (good to check that sensor brakes are working).
** <u>Walk assist</u>: enabled/disable with a long press of DOWN button. Although it is implemented on LCD, it is not yet implemented on the motor controller.
** <u>Offroad mode</u>: if you have enabled the offroad mode (see configuration section below) this can be activated with the ON/OFF and UP button combination and deactivated with the ON/OFF and DOWN button combination. When active, the assist symbol above the assist level will start blinking. Offroad mode is disabled and inactive by default. We do not recommend you to activate offroad mode on public roads. In many countries offroad mode may only be used on private property.
** <u>Motor temperature / battery state of charge in percentage</u>: this field can show either the motor temperature (when the sensor is installed), the battery state in percentage or none (you can switch what is shown by pressing POWER and UP buttons simultaneously).
*** <u>Motor temperature</u>: motor temperature in degrees Celsius. When the power power is being limited due to over temperature, this field will blink (configure the temperature limits on configurations menu).
*** <u>Battery state of charge in percentage</u>: this percentage value is based on the accumulated battery power draw from your battery pack (set options on configurations menu).
** <u>Odometer field</u>: this field can show a few variables that are logic grouped in sub fields. You can change between fields by pressing ON/OFF button and sub fields by quick pressing UP button followed a long press UP button (you will see temporary the field and sub field number blinking on wheel speed field).
*** <u>1. Distance</u>
**** <u>1.0 Trip distance</u>: can be reset by quick pressing DOWN button followed a long press DOWN button (you will see trip distance value blinking if you keep pressed DOWN button and after 3 seconds the value will reset).
**** <u>1.1 Distance since power on</u> this value is automatically reset at power on. You can also reset by quick pressing DOWN button followed a long press DOWN button (you will see trip distance value blinking if you keep pressed DOWN button and after 3 seconds the value will reset).
**** <u>1.2 Odometer</u>: can be set to a specific value on the configurations menu.
*** <u>2. Battery state of charge</u> (not shown if this feature is disable on configurations menu)
**** <u>2.0 Battery state in percentage</u>
**** <u>2.1 Battery discharged total watts hour value</u>
*** <u>3. Battery</u>
**** <u>3.0 Battery voltage</u>
**** <u>3.1 Battery current</u>: the current being draw by the motor.
*** <u>4. Pedals</u>
**** <u>4.0 Rider pedal power</u>: in watts.
**** <u>4.1 Pedal cadence</u>: in RPM.
**** <u>4.2 Pedal torque</u>: in N.m.
*** <u>5. Motor</u> (not shown if this feature is disable on configurations menu)
**** <u>5.0 Motor temperature</u> in degrees Celsius.

== 2. Motor maximum power screen ==
In the maximum motor power sub menu you can set a limit to maximum motor power. This can be useful for various reasons, like controlling the battery range for long travels.

Access this screen by long pressing ON/OFF and UP buttons. Press UP and DOWN buttons to increase/decrease the value. Exit this screen by long pressing the ON/OFF button.

How it works: the motor controller will automatically limit current and therefore limit maximum motor power. As the battery discharges and the voltage decreases the motor controller will adapt and adjust the current to maintain the set limit.
<br>
Note that it is not possible to set a higher motor power than the maximum allowed battery current set by user.

'''NOTES:'''
* this functionality cannot be used when offroad mode is enabled. Disable offroad mode first.

== Configurations screen ==
Long press on UP and DOWN buttons to enter on this screen. Press UP or DOWN buttons to enter on subscreens and press ON/OFF button to move to next subscreen. To exit, long press the ON/OFF button.

== 0: General Basic setup ==
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 ||Unit|| Metric || Set (0) for metric units (km/h and kilometers) or (1) for imperial units (mph and miles)
|-
| 1 || Maximum wheel speed || 50 ||  Enter your speed limit (by law) to run legal on public roads. The motor will fade out from -0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h. Tip: Europe has generally a speed limit of 25 km/h for E-Bikes.
|-
| 2 || Wheel circumference || 2050 || Enter your wheel circumference so that speed and distance is correctly calculated.
<br><br>
Tip: Search on Google how to measure wheel circumference. But for a quick setup with ball park values use: 26'' wheel = 2050;  27'' wheel = 2150;  27.5'' wheel =2215;  28'' wheel = 2250;  29'' wheel = 2300 
|}

== 1: Battery ==

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Maximum current from battery || 16 ampere || Set maximum allowable current to be pulled from the battery. This value is limited internally by the firmware to the safe value of 18 ampere.
|-
| 1 || Battery low-cut-off voltage || 39 volt || The controller will reduce power to stay over this limit! Calculate the limit by multiplying amount of cells in series with the safe cut-off-voltage per cell, which is usually between 2.8 - 3.0 volts. Example: 39.0 volts for: 13 cells in series * 3.0 volts = 39.0 volts. 
<br><br>
Tip: The standard Samsung cells allow down to 2.75 V but you need some safety margin because not all cells have exactly the same capacity. But setting a too large value you loose range and power. I like to use the value of 29 V for a 36 V battery pack (= 10 cells in series).
|-
| 2 || Number of cells in series || 13 || Set this value so the battery state indicator works properly. This value can be any integer from 7 to 14
<br><br>
Example values: 7 for 24 V battery; 10 for 36 V battery; 13 for 48 V battery; 14 for 52 V battery.
|-
| 3 || Battery internal resistance || 130 milliohms || Set this value so the battery state indicator does not display a lower state of charge when pulling a lot of power from battery and the voltage sags.
<br><br>
Explanation: If you set the value to 0, you will see the battery state indicator fluctuating whenever the motor draws current from the battery. This is due to the internal resistance in the battery. The fluctuation will disappear and be filtered out with a correct value.
<br><br>
How to calculate the battery pack resistance:<br>
1. Limit the battery current to a known value, e.g. 10 amps<br>
2. Read the voltage drop when motor is pulling the 10 amps<br>
3. Calculate the resistance value
<br><br>
Example for 10 amps current, R = U / I, R = 1.2 volts drop / 10 amps, R = 0.120 = 120 milliohms.
|-
| 4 || Battery voltage (SOC) || - || Measured and continuously updated battery voltage State Of Charge (SOC). This value is filtered using the battery pack resistance. 
<br><br>
Tip: Here you can evaluate and test how the set internal resistance of the battery affects the voltage reading.
|}    

== 2: Battery power setup ==
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Percentage of battery charge (SOC) || 0 || Set (1) to enable or (0) to disable the gauge displaying percentage of battery charge (SOC). This value is displayed in the temperature field.
|-
| 1 || Increment or decrement || 0 || Set (1) if you wish the percentage should display consumed battery capacity and therefore go from 0 % to 100 % or set (0) if you prefer it shows percentage of remaining capcity and therefore 100 % to 0 %.
|-
| 2 || Threshold voltage to reset watt-hour meter || 54.2 volt || When powering on the display this value is compared to the battery voltage. If it is lower the battery is expected to be fully charged and the watt-hour meter is reset.
<br><br>
Tip: To find a suitable value, fully charge the battery and measure the voltage on the KT-LCD3, use a slightly lower value for the threshold voltage. 
<br><br>
Example: my 48 V battery charges up to 54.6 volts, so I set the threshold to 54.2 volts.
|-
| 3 || Total watt-hours of battery || 0 || Set the total capacity in watt-hours your battery has. 
<br><br>
Tip: fully charge the battery and then discharge it completely and use the measured value to input here. 
<br><br>
Tip: the capacities stated from suppliers are often too high, expect a value of around 80 % - 90 % of stated value. I use 350 Wh for my 386 Wh battery.
<br><br>
Tip: roughly calculate the capacity by multiplying the nominal voltage with the nominal ampere hours. Example: a 48 volt, 14.5 Ah battery has a nominal watt-hour capacity of 696 Wh.
|-
| 4 || Consumed Wh || - || This meter displays consumed watt-hours since last reset. This value is reset automatically when you power on the LCD and the battery is fully charged, i.e., above the set threshold voltage.
|}

== 3: Assist level setup ==

Here you can configure how many assist levels you wish to be able to select and also their respective multipliers. The defaults should already work for most people.

The assist level sets the motor power as a factor of the power the rider is generating on the crankshaft. For instance, if assist level 3 is chosen and configured with a multiplier of 2.0, when the rider is generating a power of 100 watts, the motor power will assist another 200 watts.

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Number of assist levels || 5 ||  Select the desired number of assist levels from a minimum of 1 to a maximum of 9. 
|-
| 1 || Assist level 1 multiplier || 0.5 || The value with which the human pedaling power is multiplied with.
<br><br>
Example: 0.5 * 200 W (human power) = 100 W assist power. This results in 300 W total power.
|-
| 2 || Assist level X multiplier || .... || The desired multiplier for assist level X.
|}

== 4: Startup power boost ==

Here you can configure the BOOST feature. This feature gives a peak of power to the motor at startup. The amount of time of the peak as also the amount of motor power during the peak, can be configured. You can also disable this feature if you prefer.

{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || BOOST feature || 0 ||  Set (1) to enable or (0) to disable.
|-
| 1 || On startup only / everytime || 1 ||  Set (1) to enable BOOST feature every time pedal cadence or torque sensor value are zero. Set (0) to enable BOOST feature only when startup and bicycle wheel speed is equal to zero; 
|-
| 2 || limit BOOST power to max battery power || 0 || Set (1) to enable BOOST power limit to the maximum battery power value. Set (0) to disable.
|-
| 3 || BOOST time || 2.0 seconds || Set time limit of BOOST.
|-
| 4 || Fade out BOOST || 3.5 seconds || Set time limit to transition of power from BOOST to regular power.
|-
| 5 || Assist level 1 BOOST multiplier|| 4 || Set the BOOST multipler corresponding to assist level 1.
<br><br>
Tip: See assist levels for more information about multipliers.
|-
| 6 || Assist level X BOOST multiplier || - || Set the BOOST multipler corresponding to assist level X.
<br><br>
Tip: See assist levels for more information about multipliers.
|}

== 5: Motor temperature protection ==

This feature is for protecting your motor from overheating and avoid permanent damage/loss of torque -- see here: '''[[TSDZ2 motor demagnetized due to overheating]]'''. You can only use and enable this feature [[How to install motor temperature sensor|if you installed the motor temperature sensor]].

=== How it works ===

On LCD3 temperature field you will be able to see the motor temperature value. Once the configured minimum motor temperature value is hit, the motor current will start to be reduced and as long as it increases, the more the 
current will be reduce. After hitting the configured maximum motor temperature value, the motor is shutoff.

The temperature value shown on LCD3 will blink when the motor current is being limited and will blink faster for higher rates of limited current. Finally, if the motor is shutoff, the blink rate will be very fast.

Possible configurations on LCD3:
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Motor temperature protection || 0 || Set (1) to enable the motor temperature control or set (0) to disable. 
<br><br>
NOTE: if you do not have the [[How to install motor temperature sensor|motor temperature sensor installed]], you should disable this option and ignore the immediate configurations below.
|-
| 1 || Minimum temperature || 75 °C || Set the minimum motor temperature at which the motor current will start to be limited.
|-
| 2 || Maximum temperature || 85 °C || Set the maximum motor temperature at which the motor current will be completely blocked, i.e., motor shutoff.
|}

== 6: Display configuration ==
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || LCD brightness when backlight is off || 5 || Percentage of brightness when backlight is turned off, e.g., 5 %
|-
| 1 || LCD brightness when backlight is on || 80 || Percentage of brightness when backlight is turned on, e.g., 80 %
|-
| 2 || LCD auto power off || 15 || Automatic power off after set amount of minutes.
|-
| 3 || Reset to factory defaults || 0 ||
#Increase the value to 10 
#The display will turn off 
#Turn it on again 
#Factory default settings will be restored
|}

== 7: Offroad mode configuration==
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Feature toggle|| 0 || Select (1) to enable or (0) to disable.
|-
| 1 || Active on system startup || 0 || Determines whether offroad mode should be active on system startup. Select (1) to enable or select (0) to disable.
|-
| 2 || Speed limit || 25 km/h || This speed limit is used when offroad mode is not active. Configure your speed which is legal for using on public roads. The motor will fade out power from -0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h.
|-
| 3 || Limit power || 0 || Determines whether power should be limited when offroad mode is not active. Select (1) to enable or (0) to disable.
|-
| 4 || Power limit || 250 W || The power limit in watts. For most countries in Europe the legal power limit is 250 W.
|}

== 8: Various==
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Default value''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || Motor voltage type || 0 || 
* 0 for 48V brushless motor (TSDZ2 52V version has a 48V brushless motor)
* 1 for 36V brushless motor.
* 2 for experimental high cadence mode (only available in version 0.14.3 and up). Maybe not good for the motor, use at your own risk. Probably only suitable for 36 V motors.
This configuration is needed for FOC calculations.
|-
| 1 || Motor assistance startup without pedal rotation || 0 || Select (1) to enable or select (0) to disable. Recommended to keep at disabled (0) if you do not have brake sensors installed.
|-
| 2 || Set odometer || 0 || Set the odometer to preferred value. Increase the value by pressing UP button or press and hold to have the value increment automatically. Decrease the value by pressing the DOWN button or press and hold to have the value decrement automatically.
|}

== 9: Advanced technical data==
{|
| '''Submenu number''' || '''Configuration name''' || '''Description'''
|-
| 0 || ADC throttle || See the current value
|-
| 1 || Throttle || See the current value
|-
| 2 || ADC pedal torque sensor || See the current value
|-
| 3 || Pedal torque sensor || See the current value
|-
| 4 || Pedal cadence || See the current value
|-
| 5 || Pedal human power || See the current value
|-
| 6 || PWM duty cycle || See the current value
|-
| 7 || Motor speed in ERPs || See the current value
|-
| 8 || FOC angle || See the current value. This value must be multiplied by 1.4 to get angle value in degrees.
|}