The following applies to firmware version 0.14 only!

CAUTION: always use the same firmware version for both the motor controller and LCD!

NOTE: Before start using the firmware, you must configure correctly the options on LCD3. For instance, you should configure your battery low voltage cut off (battery voltage when it is discharged) and all the other parameters -- follow the next section.

KT-LCD3 shows and/or configure the following from TSDZ2 motor:

= 1. Main screen =
* '''<u>Main screen</u>''': this is the default screen after turn on the LCD.
** <u>assist level</u>: Assist level scales/amplify the torque sensor signal, if you want a higher assist level from the motor, choose the max assist level value. Assist level has 5 levels in total and user can define (on firmware configuration) a custom scale value for each level. Level 0 keep always the motor disabled.
** <u>ebike wheel speed</u>: the value can be shown in kms or mph.
** <u>battery power</u>: real time value in watts of the power being draw from the battery.
** <u>battery state of charge</u>: 6 different levels. When battery is empty, the empty symbol on LCD will also blink (state of charge is based on battery voltage and can be setup on the motor controller firmware configuration)
** <u>lights</u>: enabled with a button up long press, the motor controller will enable the ebike lights. LCD backlight will also be enabled. (backlight intensity can be setup on the motor controller firmware configuration).
** <u>brake</u>: LCD symbol is enabled when user press the ebike brakes, good to check that sensor brakes are working.
** <u>walk assist</u>: although it is implemented on LCD, it is not yet implemented on the motor controller. Enabled with a button down long press.
** <u>odometer field</u>: the following information will cycle with on/off button click
*** <u>battery voltage</u>: see your battery pack voltage.
*** <u>battery current</u>: see the current being draw from your battery pack.
*** <u>battery power</u>: see the accumulated battery power (in watts/hour) draw from your battery pack, since last battery full charge. This value is automatically reset when LCD turns on and battery voltage equals to charged battery voltage - this value can also be reset or set to a custom value on the configurations.
*** <u>pedal cadence</u>: see the pedals cadence in rotations per minute.
** <u>battery state of charge in percentage</u>: this value can be shown as an option on the temperature field. The percentage is based on the accumulated battery power draw from your battery pack and user can define on LCD configurations menu, the battery pack total watts/hour.
** <u>offroad mode</u>: if you have enabled the offroad mode (see configuration section below) this can be activated with the ON/OFF and UP button combination and deactivated with the ON/OFF and DOWN button combination. When active, the assist symbol above the assist level will start blinking. Offroad mode is disabled and inactive by default. We do not recommend you to activate offroad mode on public roads. In many countries offroad mode may only be used on private property.

= 2. Max battery power screen =
Motor controller will automatically choose a battery current in a way to limit the max battery power usage. The battery current value will never be higher than the max battery current setup on the configurations screen. Long click on on/off and up buttons to enter on this screen. Up and down buttons to increase/decrease the value. Long click of on/off button lo leave.
NOTE: this functionality cannot be used when offroad mode is enabled. Disable offroad mode first.

= 3. Configurations screen =
Long click on up and down buttons to enter on this screen. On/off button click to enter on subscreens and on/off button click to cycle on subscreens, long press  on/off to exit menue

== 0: General Basic setup==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Maximum wheel speed || 50 ||  Put in your speed limit (by law) to run legal on public roads , the motor will fade out from - 0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h in Europe often 25 km/h
|-
| 1 ||Wheel perimeter in mm  || 2050 || first estimate:  26''= 2050;  27''= 2150;  27.5''=2215;  28''= 2250;  29''=2300 
|-
| 2 || Speed Unit|| 0 km/h || 0 is km/h and  1 is miles per hour ( british miles of course)
|}

== 1: Battery ==

{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Maximum current of battery || 16 (amps) || This is the maximum current that will be pulled from your batteries by the TSDZ2 motor controller. This value is limited internally by the firmware to the safe value of 18 amps.
|-
| 1 || Battery low cut-off voltage || 39 (volts) ||  The controller will reduce power to stay over this limit! usualy 2.85-3.05 V per cell of (39.0 (3.0 * 13 = 39.0)). The standard Samsung cells allow down to 2.75V but you need some safety margin because not all cells are discharging in the same way, but by setting too high you loose range  power on a discharged battery and capacity, I like to use the value of 29 for 36V battery pack/10 cells.
|-
| 2 || Number of cells || 13 || This value is needed to make battery state indicator work.<br><br>
This value can be a number from 7 to 14 -- example values: 7 for 24V battery; 10 for 36V battery pack; 13 for 48V battery pack; 14 for 36V battery pack.
|-
| 3 || Battery pack resistance || 130 (miliohms) || This value is needed to make battery state indicator work.<br><br>
If you use a 0 value, you will see the battery state indicator fluctuating when the motor startup and pull energy from the battery. If you use the correct value, the fluctuation will disappear.
<br><br>
How to calculate the battery pack resistance:<br>
1. limit battery current to a know value like 10 amps<br>
2. read the voltage drop when motor is pulling the 10 amps<br>
3. calculate the resistance value, example for 10 amps current, R = U / I, R = 1.2 volts drop / 10 amps, R = 0.120 = 120 miliohms.
|-
| 4 || Battery pack state indicator voltage || (volts) || This is the calculated voltage used for state indicator, considering the Battery pack resistance. You can see here what is the value and should not be lower when motor is pulling current, if you configured Battery pack resistance value correctly.
|}    

== 2: Battery power setup ==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Enable / disable show the percentage of battery charge (SOC) in temperature field || 0 || Enable/disable for the gauge in the temperature field. 0 to disable and 1 to enable.
|-
| 1 || Increment or decrement || 0 || You can switch if the percentage should go form 0% - 100% or from 100% to 0% - set 0 for the first option and 1 for the other.
|-
| 2 || Voltage to reset Wh counter || 54.2 (volts) || On power on the LCD, this value is compared to the battery voltage and if is lower, means that battery is fully charged and the Wh counter is reset.<br>To find the correct value for this field, fully charge your battery and measure the voltage on LCD3, use a slight lower voltage value for this field, example: my 48V battery charges up to 54.6 volts and so I use the value 54.2.
|-
| 3 || Total watt hour || 0 || Adjust the battery pack power. You can fully charge the battery and then discharge it fully and use the measured value to input here. The value that supplier give you is often to a quite high, you should expect a value of maybe 85% - 90% (I use 350 for my 386 wh battery).
|-
| 4 || Used  power (wh)  of battery || 0 || Counted value for used watt hour from the battery. This value is reset automatically when you power on the LCD and the battery is fully charged.
|}

== 3: Assist level setup ==

Here you can choose how many assist levels are used (the ones you can choose on LCD3 when clicking up and down buttons). You can also choose the max power value in watts that motor will use to assist you.

{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Number of assist levels || 9 ||  Please select the number of assist levels you like to use from min. 1  to  max. 9 
|-
| 1 || Assist level 1 power || 400 || Max value of motor energy (in watts) that motor will use to assist you, on this assist level. The motor will use this max value only when you hit the max torque sensor force * max pedal cadence.<br><br>
Use higher values (more than what motor can give) to get more sensitivity from the torque sensor, like you can setup a value of 2000 that will double the torque sensitivity comparing to use the value of 1000. 
|-
| 2 || Assist level X power|| .... || The same a previous but for assist level X.
|}

== 4: Startup power boost ==
Here you can configure the BOOST feature. This feature gives a peak of power to the motor at startup. The amount of time of the peak as also the amount of motor power during the peak, can be configured. You can also disable this feature if you prefer.

{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Config || 0 ||  0 to enable power boost only when startup and bicycle wheel speed is equal to zero; 1 to enable power boost every time pedal cadence or torque sensor are zero
|-
| 1 || limit boost power to max battery power value || 0 || 1 to enable power boost limit to the Max battery power value and 0 to disable.
|-
| 2 || boost time || 25 (2.5 seconds) || 0 to disable startup power boost feature.
|-
| 3 || fade out/transition time || 25 (2.5 seconds) || fade out from boost power to regular power.
|-
| 4 || assist level 1 boost power || 200 || Max value of motor energy (in watts) that motor will use to assist you during power boost, on this assist level. The motor will use this max value only when you hit the max torque sensor force.<br><br>
Use higher values (more than what motor can give) to get more sensitivity from the torque sensor, like you can setup a value of 2000 that will double the torque sensitivity comparing to use the value of 1000.
|-
| 5 || assist level X boost power || --- || The same a previous but for assist level X.
|}

== 5: Motor temperature protection ==

This feature is for protecting your motor from overheating and avoid permanent damage/loss of torque -- see here: '''[[TSDZ2 motor demagnetized due to overheating]]'''. You can only use and enable this feature [[How to install motor temperature sensor|if you installed the motor temperature sensor]].

=== How it works ===

On LCD3 temperature field you will be able to see the motor temperature value. Once the configured minimum motor temperature value is hit, the motor current will start to be reduced and as long as it increases, the more the 
current will be reduce. After hitting the configured maximum motor temperature value, the motor is shutoff.

The temperature value shown on LCD3 will blink when the motor current is being limited and will blink faster for higher rates of limited current. Finally, if the motor is shutoff, the blink rate will be very fast.

Possible configurations on LCD3:
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || enable motor temperature sensor || 0 (disabled) || NOTE: if you don't have the [[How to install motor temperature sensor|motor temperature sensor installed]], you should disable this option and ignore the next configurations.
|-
| 1 || min temperature || 75 degrees Celsius || motor temperature value at which the motor current will start to be limited.
|-
| 2 || max temperature || 85 degrees Celsius || motor temperature max value at which the motor current will be zero / motor shutoff.
|}

== 6: LCD display configuration==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || LCD brightness when backlight is off || 1 || 1 means 5%? TBD
|-
| 1 || LCD brightness when backlight is on || 16 || 16 means 80%? TBD
|-
| 2 || LCD auto power off || 15 || Configured in minutes
|-
| 3 || LCD configurations reset to defaults || 0 || Increase the value to 10 and the LCD configurations will reset to the default values.
|}

== 7: Offroad mode configuration==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Offroad functionality || 0 || enabled (1) or disabled (0)
|-
| 1 || Active on system startup || 0 || Determines whether offroad mode should be active on system startup. Enabled (1) or disabled (0)
|-
| 2 || Speed limit || 25 km/h || This speed limit is used when offroad mode is not active. Configure your speed which is legal for using on public roads. The motor will fade out from - 0.5 km/h to +2,0 km/h.
|-
| 3 || Limit power || 0 || Determines whether power should be limited as well when offroad is not active. Enabled (1) or disabled (0)
|-
| 4 || Power limit || 250 W || The power limit in Watt. For certain EU countries this power limit is often 250W.
|}

== 8: Various==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''default value''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || Motor voltage type || 0 || 0 for 48V brushless motor (TSDZ2 52V version has a 48V brushless motor); 1 for 36V brushless motor. This configuration is needed for FOC calculations.
|-
| 1 || Motor assistance startup without pedal rotation || 0 || Enabled (1) or disabled (0). Recommended to keep at 0 value if you don't have brake sensors installed.
|-
| 2 || PAS max cadence || 110 ||  This value is used for calculation of human pedal power that will after be used for motor assist level.
|-
| 3 || Reset trip distance and total trip distance || 0 || Increase the value to 10 and the trip distance and total trip distance will reset to zero.

|}

== 9: Advanced technical data==
{|
| '''submenu number''' || '''configuration name''' || '''description'''
|-
| 0 || ADC throttle || see the current value
|-
| 1 || Throttle || see the current value
|-
| 2 || ADC pedal torque sensor || see the current value
|-
| 3 || Pedal torque sensor || see the current value
|-
| 4 || Pedal cadence || see the current value
|-
| 5 || Pedal human power || see the current value
|-
| 6 || PWM duty cycle || see the current value
|-
| 7 || Motor speed in ERPs || see the current value
|-
| 8 || FOC angle || see the current value. This value must be multiplied by 1.4 to get and angle value in degrees.
|}
